Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you, again. Welcome. Thank you, everyone.
Again, I'm going to talk a little bit about the teachings of the chap of Dudjo Rinpoche,
as we are continuing on the heart advice for the Four Kayas of the Buddha by His Holiness Dudjo Rin
poche.
And this is, as I've said many times, and you also see in this teaching,
it is an essence, a condense of the teaching of the entire Buddha Dhanam,
how to put breakfast in a simple, easy, but more direct, more meaningful way, how we can do it.
I am saying that because the other day the Buddha gave a lot of teaching, I mean, we all know that,
and there are also so many commentaries and so many teachings, many, many there.
But those all sometimes are huge and vast and they're deep and they're profound,
and it needs a lot of time and a lot of effort to spend and to break that knowledge into the tutu
practices.
But this is something really simple, easy, and we put this, as in this teaching said,
definitely we will get meaningful life and we will be very well off in the spiritual,
about the spiritual or the Dharma level, it will work. So that's what I'm talking, it's very
special teaching.
And therefore there are reasons, again, it's not just only for that, but we're going to reactivate
it with motivation,
motivation of the joy and appreciation, and as well as vastness, motivation of the Bodhi Jeddha.
And why I'm saying that vastness, motivation, this is not just, I'm saying,
always in those great masters, always said in the teachings, vastness, motivations.
That means that our motivation of the Bodhi Jeddha should not be limited, vast.
How big? As far as sentient beings are existing or gods, as far as living beings are existing.
And in that part, our Bodhi Jeddha goes to every and each living beings.
So therefore, and also why is vastness living beings, according to Buddhism or Buddha's teaching,
the number of the sentient beings are like there's no numbers. Number is countless.
In the teachings said, as far as the sky goes or space goes, that far there is sentient beings.
As long as sentient beings are existing, that much every and each has karma and emotions.
As long as they have karma and emotions, that much everyone is struggling.
Therefore, our loving kind is completely, Bodhi Jeddha goes as far as that.
For that reason, it's known as vastness, motivation of the Bodhi Jeddha.
And also, how long are we going to do? This is until they reach, everyone is reaching like that.
That long we are going to keep that, this beautiful motivation of Bodhi Jeddha taught.
Number is all the living beings. Direction is until everyone is become enlightened or become the
Buddha.
So that's what is called the vastness, motivation of the Bodhi Jeddha.
Then, together with that, since this teaching is also lying toward,
even though this teaching started from as post-Pornavatru teaching or the Vinaya teaching, so forth
,
but this ending, finite destination of this teaching goes to the very inner teaching, inner tender
teachings.
Therefore, they will see everything as perfection status or three radial status.
Also, we will open up that door, door of the reality of the true nature, Vedas love.
Why this need to be done? Because according to the teaching of the Bodhi Jeddha Muni,
reality, everything is in purity status, both subject and object. Everything is in purity status,
everything.
What that means? All is enlightened status.
And this is why when we read books or when we receive the teachings from the great masters,
in the teaching open, say, five elements are five female Buddhas, five aggregates are five male
Buddhas.
Everything is enlightened. Everything is a waking state, a purity status.
Even if you are looking and searching something is impure, the Buddhas were not never going to
fight.
What that means? According Buddhism, Buddha knows everything because of omniscient.
Buddha or he or she has no blockage of anything to the past, to the present, to the future.
Time and space is not existing in enlightened status, in the Buddha world status.
Everything is clay and precise in the world as right in front of us, our objects, even more than
that.
That is what is called. Even the Buddha is looking and searching if there is something is impurity,
never going to find anything is impurity status. That's how reality level.
And that is our goal. Again, the practitioner's goal is to discover that energy nature within that
this single life times.
So therefore, to open that door of the vegan, lining toward that is very important.
It is practice. Practice. That's how we really can open.
If we close the door, everything, then we stay always in a dark corner room, dark room.
Nothing can improve. Therefore, we have to open the power of the mind, not just the power of the
mind,
the original power of the wisdom mind that we should open it and begin to see every object,
every subject into that reality status. That is why it is always bringing the purity realizations,
every beginning of every teaching, in all those great master's teachings,
and as well as in the teaching, teaching also always innovation to bring those motivations and
thought clearly.
So bring out all those beautiful qualities, and now we go to them again, to these teachings.
And we've been, the hour we've been talking, we talked about the poor training of the mind or poor
inner sessions.
That is generally a symbol to say it is in the samsara.
So we talk about the samsara, where this samsara is.
We talk about the fractal lives. We talk about the impermanence.
We talk about the cause and effectors, are inevitable or karma is inevitable.
And we talk about the samsara as a lot of challenges and difficulties. We spoke that.
So that means this is nothing, again, as I said before many times,
it's nothing, any kind of new dogma or new philosophy of the Buddhism.
It is reality of every living beings. We all have gone through this.
And for everyone, it's no exceptions whether you have believed or whether you don't believe.
It is all the same. So looking to the truth as its truth on a relative role is so important.
And also looking exactly where things are in absolute level, that's what we like to find.
Truth is truth. So relative truth, that's what really we have to deal in this samsara.
This is what we have. This is what we are now. We can't go away from that.
We can't reject this thing. So looking to that is so important in the Buddha's teaching.
And it's not just only Buddha. And all the great masters said,
if we recollect those thoughts, it will become more calmer.
Our mind will become more calmer, more peaceful, more practical and more sensible
and develop a lot of good common senses, really good common senses.
And so they are more humble, more peaceful, more simple, all those good things.
So what we are looking, it will come with knowing the truth exactly as it is.
And also when we reflect those thoughts, it is this big mind, super mindfulness practice.
We become more thoughtful, calmer. It is therefore mindfulness.
So when we went through that, once we did this, then what in the teaching said,
you are more interested in how to change the direction of this, that situation of this samsara.
And for that reason, we discussed about the Naranas a little bit, about the Naranas.
And the importance and the benefit and the goodness of Naranas
will be followed part of the spirituals, part of the Dhanas.
That is what it is. And that is also followed in the part of the Dhanas,
is what the great teacher Buddha mentioned or taught in the first teaching, part truth, part truth.
Part truth is the cause to bring the result of the cessation truth on the Narana.
Narana is not just going to come, come without any cause and conditions.
Narana is going to bring by the part truth.
So therefore, we spoke the benefit of the part, part truth or the Naranas, we very briefly spoke.
And then we will look to the part truth and always in the teaching said,
you should meet qualified spiritual friends.
And this is also, there is no history of any enlightened Buddhas
or any higher realization without the spiritual friend or qualified teacher.
The spiritual friend or the qualified teacher is saying no names.
And we explained there is how many categories of the spiritual friends Buddha.
We divided into three, even though there is many levels, many different varieties
of the spiritual masters, spiritual god, friendess.
But we went to summarize and so tell you, the ordinary individualists
and as well as the Bodhisattvas and the Buddhas.
And our reign, where we are now, mostly, I'm not saying our, all,
but most of all, all of us, our reign, we cannot really meet immediately
as higher Bodhisattvas to be ever spiritual friend or the teacher.
And we cannot also meet, unable to meet, as Buddha, as our spiritual friend.
So we have to go according our reign of the capabilities,
we should contact spiritual friend of the owners.
And the ordinary, even though I'm using terminology, it's ordinary, but there those,
all those spiritual master, what I explained in the TK, they're more calmer,
more peaceful, more knowledgeable and more kind of knowledgeable
about their practice in the meditation and understanding of the Buddha teaching
and as well as their disciplines and all, those things are like quite good
or the discipline level quite good, concentration level quite good,
understood level of the understanding of the Buddha teaching is quite good
or better, more better than ourself, let it more better than ourself,
each of those, let it more, and those are known as everyday,
everyday practical, ordinary masters or spiritual friends
that we can meet and contact with.
So those we discuss.
One of we discuss that and then how we follow TK and then we should connect
with the three jewels, Buddha, Dharma and Sangha.
And that's what we are going to discuss here, the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha
and that is a fourth line or fourth or fifth lines here.
And of course, you...
The ninth here, here, and that is here.
Tragedy and the three jewels and an impermeable source of roughness.
So here I kind of highlight yesterday that there is three kind of principal points,
three jewels and a tragedy and a three jewels is an impermeable source of roughness.
So this is the kind of highlight of the statement of this.
So this is, this first three jewels or second of...
First is from home.
This is from our side.
We have to trust this.
So that means individuals, those who are practitioners,
that explain what should they be, what should they have.
It should have the trust.
And then to what is the collect of the others that we're going to,
to whom we're going to trust.
That is three jewels.
And then what they are three jewels,
they are the impermeable source of roughness, three jewels.
So these last three are explaining about the three jewels.
They are three jewels and they are impermeable source of roughness.
Or they are forever protectors, forever and ever,
until we reach enlightenment or become the Buddha.
That is what is explained.
And now about the three jewels, of course we all know.
We all know some, a little bit everyone, we all know.
But I'm just talking a little bit again to highlight a lot of these things.
As I said yesterday, so now we talk a little bit about the three jewels.
Three jewels are the Buddha, Dharma and the Sangha.
Buddha, Dharma, Sangha and now the Buddhas.
Generally Buddha is Sanskrit word translated into a debate as Sanjhi.
So that means San jhi, two jewels.
San means purified.
Jhi means actualized or progressed or developed.
So that means what that means.
Sanjhi means or Buddha means in the debate,
one of translated by ancient time those great emanated newsletters.
How say it? Sanjhi, purified and fully developed.
What purified?
All the obscurations are completely purified.
Now what that means, all obscurations.
These obscurations can be a gross level, there's two obscurations.
Those are known as emotion obscurations and knowledge obscurations.
What is emotion obscurations?
Emotion obscurations are the pipe bosons, pipe bosons and ego clingings.
The end of death, self-emotional, all that development, those are known as emotion obscurations.
And a very simple way to explain.
And what is this knowledge obscurations?
Knowledge obscurations is grasping, clinging.
And what that also in the teachings, what that means.
Clinging to the subject, clinging to the object,
clinging to the activities, action of the subject and object.
That is knowledge obscurations.
Emotions are, to compare with these two obscurations,
emotion obscurations are more gross obscurations than the knowledge obscurations.
Knowledge obscurations are more subtle, more deeper and more stronger.
Any emotion obscurations are gross to compare with the knowledge obscurations.
So the Buddha completely purified the bond obscurations.
What is the teaching saying?
Emotion obscurations will blockage to getting the liberation or the nirvana.
It will prevent, emotion obscurations will prevent to getting the realization or the achievement of
the nirvanas.
Knowledge obscurations will prevent the blockage to attainment of the enlightenment of the Buddha,
fully awake towards.
So that is what the teaching says.
When you, for example, in the teachings, say, when you require the emotion obscurations,
that individual is never going to go in the samsara with karma and emotions.
Karma and emotion, they are out of samsara, even they are in the samsara.
As we said yesterday, samsara is nothing but in the mental state.
As soon as we complete or remove the duality, that moment, we are 100% the one in the nirvana or
the enlightened state.
As long as dualities existed, that long still we are in samsara.
When you remove the non-emotion obscurations, such as ego, clinging, pipe holes and so forth, when
we remove that,
those when you remove, we are not going to take rebirth in the samsara.
When we went to samsara a few weeks or a few days ago, those six games,
all those games are completely disabled for our range, for us.
We are not going to move as I, not I, use, but example use, how we are spending,
how we are rotating the samsara as a roller coaster or as a beast in a jar.
We use those examples, that is no more applied to that individual, one who is completely purified
the emotion obscurations,
or ego clinging and that emotion obscurations.
Therefore, it is called known as, when you purify the emotion obscurations, you are in the nirvanas
.
And when you are completely purified the knowledge obscurations, then you are fully awakened.
So Buddha, Buddhas are totally that, the one they purify it, purify it, both obscurations,
completely purify it.
And then, what they achieved, that all the achievement and realization, everything is completely
achieved.
And everything, and what the everything in the teaching said, what everything, to summarize that,
to summarize that.
And in knowledge, the wisdom level, they completely achieved everything what happened.
And the compared level, they completely reached the peak of the comparison.
And loving kindness level, they reached the peak of that, nothing higher and deeper to go for that,
there is nothing to go.
They reached completely.
And so wisdom and everything is completed.
That is what Buddha, Sanji, Sanji is purified, they are referring to the obscurations that are all
removed.
J is developed, fully developed, and that indicating of all the realization is achieved. That is
the really Buddha.
And then we were talking about the Buddha yesterday.
We went, it is not just like we are talking, and as the teaching said, then Buddha can be divided
four different Buddhas.
All three Buddhas is generally different.
Three Buddhas and three poor Buddhas.
Those are, maybe I should, maybe you now misheard what that means, three Buddhas.
I am talking about the Gaiyas, three Gaiyas and three or poor Gaiyas.
Three Gaya Buddhas, poor Gaya Buddhas.
So that is it. That is what I am talking.
Three Gaya Buddhas and four Gaya Buddhas, all the Buddhas.
And these Buddhas, there is, if we talk today, three poor Gaiyas, as I listed yesterday,
and you all know, I am just repreaching our memories that we heard from many great Masters and
started in the book.
I am just going through that again, repreaching that in a way.
Some really think how can it help us to remind each other. That is what I am doing.
So, in a poor Buddha level, a poor Gaya Buddha level, what are those four Gaiyas?
Buddhas, Gaya and Dharma Gaya, and then some poor Gaya, and in Dharma Gaya, those are the four Gaiy
as, all poor Buddhas.
These four three Buddhas are, for example, when we were practicing Dharma,
opening this in the teaching, he said, "Proper the dual purposes, dual purposes."
Buddha is going to prefer the three purposes, the one's own purpose and purpose to the others.
That is really what Buddha is going to prefer, or the bodhisattva is going to prefer.
And among that, which is more important for the bodhisattva?
Proper the purpose of others. That is a problem.
But in order to perform the purpose of others, you have to prepare.
It comes naturally in the fulfillment of yourself.
So, therefore, even though object, we object, those great bodhisattvas object to fulfill the goal
and the benefit to others,
but at the same time, it will also fulfill their goals.
So therefore, it is divided as two purposes, purpose to the others and purpose to the one's own
self.
So this poor Kaya of the Buddhas, first two are performing the one's own purposes.
So that means Dharma Kaya and Sobhava Kaya.
So Dharma Kaya and Sobhava Kaya.
Dharma Kaya and Sobhava Kaya have a synonym. I am mixing up that.
Dharma Kaya and Sobhava Kaya are synonyms.
And then second is Dharma Kaya, that of course we all know.
These two Kayas are known as performing one's own purposes.
They are not hard and poor Kayas. Sambo Kaya and Nirma Kayas are performing the purpose for others.
So that's really how. For that reason, Buddha achieved these four Kayas.
Every time we talk about three Kayas, then Dharma Kaya, Sambo Kaya and Nirma Kaya,
I think we all know that.
And in that way Dharma Kaya and Nirma Kaya or Sobhava Kaya are in the same status.
Dharma Kaya is, the Dharma Kaya, the fourth Kaya is the division of the third Kaya.
Third Kaya. So that's how it is.
And so Dharma Kaya is performing one's own purposes.
And Sobhava Kaya and Nirma Kaya is performing the purpose for others.
So that is. And now what is, if we go over these four Kayas, what is Dharma Kaya or Sobhava Kaya?
It is the great Dharma Dhatu, or Dharma Dhatu pervasive college of Dharma Dhatu,
which is free from all the complex cities. That aspect of nature, of achievement or realization
is known as Dharma Kaya or the Sobhava Kaya, Sobhava Kaya.
So that means, again, the union of the emptiness and great wisdom.
That ultimate goal, ultimate nature, achievement is Dharma Kaya, Sobhava Kaya or the fourth Kaya.
And then next one, second one. Dharma Kaya, Dharma Kaya. What that means?
Dharma Kaya is the clarity or the intelligence aspect of the Sobhava Kaya.
That is Dharma Kaya.
21 groups of the unstained westerns, 21 groups of the unstained or undefiled quality of the western
s.
Dharma Kaya is, that is the best. But if simple you tell, Dharma Kaya is the complete ultimate
clarity,
the wisdom, intelligence aspect of the Dharma Kaya is the Dharma Kaya.
It remains the division of these two Kayas. Sobhava Kaya, I've ever used, maybe just wrote this one
,
Sobhava Kaya and Dharma Kaya. It remains that division.
So one is more emptiness aspect of the true nature,
and the other is the more highlight of the clarity and wisdom aspect of the realization.
There is some more way to tell. That is the division of these first two Kayas.
Kayas. Now this Kaya, this Dharma Kaya, even though it's totally great emptiness,
pervasive nature and pre-prong all the categories and then every kind of pre-prong, non-existing
that level.
But yet it contains all the quality of the enlightened beings.
As we're talking about 21 groups of the stainless or undefiled quality of the enlightenment sense
is there.
Summarize all that. What is that?
Summarize that is the knowledge, wisdom.
That understanding the relative truth exactly as it is, the absolute truth exactly as it is.
That is what this knowledge is.
And that knowledge also contains what?
Knowledge, compassion, loving kindness. All that within that nature.
The nature of the Dharma Kaya.
And a simple way to tell, there is infinite quality, infinite love,
or seedling quality, not just infinite.
Infinite and seedling quality of the, or bursting quality of loving kindness.
Infinite bursting quality of the compassion, infinite and just radiating quality of the wisdom.
That is what it is.
Because of that, then the relative benefit of all beings then emanated to the other Kaya's.
And those are known as Sambo Gaya and Nirma Gaya's.
Sambo Gaya and Nirma Gaya's are translated into a minute a bit as Lumkyu Zoku and then Tripako.
All Lumkyu and Tripako. Lumkyu Zoku, Tripako.
Lumkyu Zoku, Tripako.
These two Kaya's. Two Kaya's.
Lumkyu Zoku, again with these great masters or translators, translated Lumkyu.
Lumkyu Zoku means that one who is completely luxurious, or one who has complete luxury qualities.
Luxury qualities, every aspect.
Or the richness, the bundleness and the richness of the infinite that college.
That who has, Sambo Gaya has.
Sambo Gaya is luxurious.
Their kind of like status is totally, everything is so perfect.
Everything is so beautiful. Everything is so inconceivable in beauties.
Beauty, marvelous and every aspect.
Blessfulness, stillness, undefided qualities. That's how reflected all the, if I say Sambo Gaya,
all the environment with the five optical senses are within that status.
Every time undefided.
Therefore, it is sometimes translated into I think English, richness boils.
Kaya of richness. Everything is rich.
Rich says, that is the guy.
And that is again to summarize of that, that in the teaching said, said then five perfects.
Perfect poem, perfect places, or maybe I should say perfect places, perfect poem, perfect retinas,
and perfect time, and perfect teachings.
Those are five perfectness, operas for high and lighter qualities of the Sambo Gayas, the richness
es.
Those are the perfect places.
Place the way the Sambo Gaya Buddha recited is accordingly teaching is completely, completely
beyond the dualities.
Beyond the duality.
That means no more samsaras, no more samsaras, beyond the dualities.
Therefore, everything is completely as enlightened status, and which is,
known as in Sanskrit, Akanistra, in the Tibet, Homi, or the great pure land of the Homi.
Darmadattu, pure lands, those are the names, but reality is completely environment is,
everything is the wisdom status, and the union of the wisdom and the great blessfulness status.
All free from suffering, difficulty, trouble, getting old, and all those notions are completely
free, all that.
That is the pure land of the perfect pure land of the Sambo Gaya Buddha side.
And then Sambo Gaya, the Sambo Gaya is what, their pickles are perfect body, perfect body, perfect
body, poems,
and thirty-two magical marks and eighty manual marks.
Those are the teachings said.
And always beautiful, always beautiful, and always clear, brilliant, light, shimmering, and fresh,
fresh,
and soft, tender, and every proportion, every aspect, everything is perfect, perfect.
That is about the picture of this Sambo Gaya Buddha.
And then the retinas of the Sambo Gaya Buddhas are, said, all is also a higher enlightenment,
enlightened bodhisattvas, tenth bodhisattvas, or higher state bodhisattvas,
the bodhisattvas residing, or who achieve the highest, highest stages of the Burmese.
Burmese, all in teaching, some said, the eighth Burmese bodhisattvas,
ninth Burmese bodhisattvas, tenth Burmese bodhisattvas.
Those are retinas of this Sambo Gaya.
And teaching is also teachings, all in Mahayana teachings, Mahayana teachings.
That can be as a causal Mahayana teachings and as a result of Mahayana teachings.
Continually that, teaching, that is all, that is so perfect teachings.
And how long that teaching is lost or given is the continuation teachings, not just today.
As there is unending, unending teachings of the, or echoes of the song that are continually shimmer
ing
and sizzling, resounding everywhere, all the time.
The perfect, highest of teachings of the true nature as it can, it is.
That is what teaching is.
So those are known as, as the five perfecters of the Sambo Gaya Buddhas.
And then in that, so that is really about the Sambo Gayas.
And then the Mahayana Buddhas are then, is appeared for the Mahayana for all the other individuals
in the teaching
said those are who have not reached the post booming.
Those the Mahayana Buddhas are came again from the completion, loving kindness of the Sambo Gaya
and all the Dharmakaya Buddhas appeared and then the Narmakaya Buddhas, Narmakaya Buddhas.
And then Mahayana is those like, there is, again, because order to benefit all living beings
and then the Mahayana Buddhas are appeared many different forms.
Those are, there is called Supreme Narmakayas.
And then as, as, as, you know, I'll go on to that one.
And, and then Supreme Narmakayas and emanate, Supreme Narmakaya, emanation Narmakaya,
variety Narmakaya and art Narmakayas, art, A-R-T, art Narmakayas.
So those are the, it's kind of like, highlight the groups of the four different Narmakayas.
And the Supreme Narmakaya is like referred as the Buddha Kshatya Mahas.
Who had the opportunity to be the Buddha Kshatya or Supreme Narmakaya in the teaching said,
generally the teaching said, those who have capability or who have the opportunity to meet such
this great teacher,
teacher as Narmak, Supreme Narmakaya, and those are, maybe also they are already on the path,
already on the path, such as accumulation path and the application path there.
But then also in the sense of the Buddha, the Mahayana Buddha is the emanation of the compassion.
So therefore also can be to every of them.
So in the teaching said, in Bodhaka Kamanagi, teaching, there is so many, such audience came,
variety audience came in many different directions.
Not just only the human being, even the animals are attended to that.
So therefore, I mean, it's generally is for quite good practice, you know, but same time,
those all who have fortunate and economically connected, they are able to meet me,
and meet the Supreme Narmakaya and receive the teaching from this Narmakayas.
And then the emanation of Narmakaya, I translated as emanated Narmakaya.
Those emanated Narmakayas can be a quality teaching, many, many.
And the particular, for example, there is six emanated Buddhas in six different realms.
Those are also known as emanated Narmakayas.
And then as well as also in many times and when I get a Master's making,
and all this high and qualified spiritual master can be also as like blessed by the Buddhas
to continue carry the message of the truth and the teaching and all of all this.
So they also can be as categorized within the birth, Narmakaya of that.
Because what the Chapterman said in the teaching said at the end of the generations,
at the end of the generations, I will claim in the form of the spiritual friend
and I will be help and support to all of you.
Those are in the Buddha said.
So therefore, it can be also there in the teachings.
And the variety in the Narmakayas, then it is so many different varieties.
It is not necessarily always beings, but for example, trees and bridges.
And when we need that chakra of such trees and we need to cross the river, bridges or the boats.
And then all the variety things according to whatever the people needed
in the Buddhas are appeared in those different forms known as variety in the Narmakayas.
And the art in the Narmakayas, the art then, many times in the teachings said,
those artists in them are propagated by the very great artists known as Vishukarmas.
But at the same time, any art, those are all that inspired
by firing to help and bring the peace and happiness to the others.
There can be all, maybe art Narmakayas, such as those particularly,
such as statues of the Buddha, Chakra Muni, all others are.
All those are painted, or those are structured, or those are casted.
Any of those are known as, as, then, the art Narmakayas.
And what is all of those is just benefiting for all the sentient beings.
So that is really about the portrayal of the Buddhas.
Thank you, okay, very much everyone. Thank you, thank you, thank you.
I stop here, and sorry, sorry, I'm not sorry, I think we now do many days now.
I think it will be sorry, sorry.
This is my kind of habit, sometimes it's sorry.
But no sorry, thank you.